Art of A11Y Initial Launch (#1318)
playfulprogramming/playfulprogramming: content/crutchcorn/collections/art-of-accessibility/posts/art-of-a11y-preface/index.md

It's important, however, to acknowledge that your decisions on the UX can impact your users long into their usage. We should be sure to test our behaviors and verify with those users that they enjoy using your app.

> Why are you talking about this now? How does it matter?

It matters because if the end users don't enjoy the experience of working with our apps, we have some work to do.

One area which many developers have work to do is "Accessibility".

# What is accessibility?

Put simply, accessibility is the idea that your apps should be usable and enjoyable to as many people as possible. For some, this means that your app is easy to think through - there aren't three buttons that all have the same icon and do different things.

For others, however, it means supporting keyboard-only usage of your app for those that cannot use the mouse, supporting screen-readers for blind users, and enabling other forms of assistive tech.

> What's a screen-reader? What's "assistive tech"?

> A screen reader is a form of assistive technologies that allow users with a myriad of capabilities to use their computers.

Author: Certainly not my intention with this section. The idea was more "All users can use a screen-reader and they might have varying kinds of disabilities." like you were saying. Might just use that exact sentence TBH

Consider; If you can't see the screen many use to access their emails, how can you still do so?

The answer? A screen-reader, which reads the contents of the screen out loud, and a keyboard to navigate through the page using <kbd>Tab</kbd>.

---

Consider the following button:

<button>Go home</button>

This button might be read by a screen-reader as "Button, Go home". 

Meanwhile, this list of items:

- Ice Cream
- Pizza

> Might read out as "List of 2 items." when the user has the list focused. Then, upon pressing <kbd>Tab</kbd>, it might read "Item one, Ice Cream".

Reviewer: How would you focus this list? In my experience, lists don't take tab focus by default. When I click tab, it goes to the next tabbable item, which is an anchor below. For me, to access the list, I click the down arrow 

I'm using NVDA and have not tried out other screen readers, so it may be that different screen readers act differently

Author: Good callout. I've made it more generic by removing the `tab` mention

To ensure your app is accessible, you need to:

- Learn what makes an app accessible
- Make programming considerations in your markup and styling
- Build out dedicated features to make your apps more accessible
- Test your app using assistive technologies

This _can_ be a lot of work, which may lead some to ask: "Why?"

# Why you should make your apps accessible

> Why would I spend time supporting devices like screen readers? How many of my users are blind or hard of sight?

Well, there's some major points I'd like to speak to:

1) Accessibility leads to more users, and even more funds.
2) Accessibility enhances the user experience for everyone.
3) You may have a legal requirement to be accessible.
4) Being accessible is the right thing to do.

## Accessibility leads to more users, and even more funds

If you build something, isn't there a certain draw to having as many people engage with it as possible?

There's an appeal to having your work appreciated by an audience, especially for side projects.

Worried about the bottom line? Accessibility helps here, too.

> [It is estimated that 1.3 billion people worldwide are disabled.](https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/disability-and-health) This results in a 16% estimation of the worlds population. This means that 1 in 6 people worldwide have a disability.

Author: Yeahhhhh. FWIW I didn't know the CDC's metrics, but I'm absolutely not using this admins' data. Not a PFP call, just a personal uncomfortability.

Any of these users are potential customers for you. By widening the pool of users that are able to utilize your application, you're enabling the ability for these users to pay for your services.

> The disabled community will spend money if your product/brand is accessible. That, in turn, will cause for word of your product, app, or brand to be spread throughout the disabled community.

Author: The challenge I have here is that I don't want to linger too far on this point because, when read with maliciousness, it could be perceived negatively against the accessibility community.

## Accessibility enhances the user experience for everyone

> Are you sighted? Have you ever stepped outside from a dark interior to the bright outdoors and been unable to see momentarily?

Author: I actually don't agree with the assessment here. I find the screen reflection thing much weaker than the more intense bodily response of "aww crap, can't see, sun bright"

I'm gonna choose to leave as is

		<td><img role="img" alt="Someone standing" src="./laryngitis.svg" style="height: 200px; filter: var(--invertOnDarkOnly);"/><br/>Laryngitis</td>
		<td><img role="img" alt="Someone standing in viking gear" src="./heavy_accent.svg" style="height: 200px; filter: var(--invertOnDarkOnly);"/><br/>Heavy accent</td>
	</tr>
</table>

> [Graphics courtesy of Microsoft via their Inclusive Toolkit PDF](https://download.microsoft.com/download/b/0/d/b0d4bf87-09ce-4417-8f28-d60703d672ed/inclusive_toolkit_manual_final.pdf).

Similarly, even if you're not disabled in any way, you may still take advantage of accessibility features. Take keyboard navigation, for example: many power users of their machines don't take their fingers off of their keyboard row for many reasons.

By making sure that your apps are accessible, you're making sure your users are being respected and taken care of, regardless of scenario.

## You may have a legal requirement to be accessible

Not only do you make money by making your tools accessible, but you may likely save money by dodging legal action against your company.

> See, there are a wide range of businesses that have a legal obligation to be accessible. 
> 
> Do government contracts? If those government contracts are in the U.S, they're often subject to [Section 508](https://www.section508.gov/manage/laws-and-policies/) compliance. 
> 
> Maybe you're in the United Kingdom? You may have to comply with [The Equality Act of 2010](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2010/15/contents).
> 
> These laws are regulations are not only applicable in English speaking countries, either; [there is a wide range of countries that have legal requirements for applications to be accessible.](https://www.w3.org/WAI/policies/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See, many organizations have a legal obligation to be accessible. Chances are especially great if your organization interfaces with the public.

In the U.S., the [Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)](https://www.ada.gov/resources/web-guidance/) can be applied to applications from governments and business that serve the public, including customer portals and retail.

And if your business does government contracts? Government contracts in the U.S., for instance, are often subject to [Section 508](https://www.section508.gov/manage/laws-and-policies/) compliance.

Maybe you're in the United Kingdom? You may have to comply with [The Equality Act of 2010](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2010/15/contents).

These types of laws and regulations are not only applicable in English speaking countries, either; [the list of legal requirements for web accessibility is long](https://www.w3.org/WAI/policies/), and growing, like the [European Accessibility Act that goes into effect later this year](https://accessible-eu-centre.ec.europa.eu/content-corner/news/eaa-comes-effect-june-2025-are-you-ready-2025-01-31_en).
```

Also rewrote sentences that included `a wide range` since there's another on line `+224`.

- Edge-case against and fix bugs

And more.

How can we prioritize which features of accessibility we should start on? How can we balance effort against the impact a set of functionality will provide?

Intro: **WCAG Conformance Levels**.

WCAG Conformance Levels are broken into three different categories:

- **A**: The most basic level of WCAG conformance comprising of a set of guidelines to follow. Without these guidelines met, many of your users may face a barrier preventing them from interacting with your work.
  - EG: Descriptive text for images for non-sighted users, keyboard navigation, and accessible forms.
- **AA**: Includes all of "A" level rules. May impact the "look and feel" of the site, but provides additional value to all users.
  - EG: Basic color contrast for visually impaired users, text resizing support, headings level structure.
- **AAA**: The highest level of WCAG conformance which includes all of "A" and "AA" level rules as well as its own. May furtherly constrain the "look and feel" of the site, but provides the most value to many users.
  - EG: More rigorous contrast requirements, sign language for live video.

# How can I make my apps accessible?

> Making apps more accessible isn't a one-size fits all solution. While some may sell one-click solutions, such as "accessibility overlays", I can confidently say that at best they're snake-oil and at worst they can do more harm than doing nothing at all.

Reviewer 2: Reference(s) here may be helpful in abating sceptics of dealing in absolutes for how bad they are.

E.g. [Overlay Factsheet](https://overlayfactsheet.com)

> What am I to do instead?

As with any other aspect of engineering, making sites available to more users in more friendly ways requires us to learn a bit about the structure of applications, the underlying APIs, and how to leverage them best.

This resource aims to help you learn these tools and methods and apply them as you see fit.

## What we're not learning

Before we dive into the contents of this book, I'm a firm believer that it's just as important to know what we _won't_ be covering as it is what we _will_ be learning.

In "The Art of Accessibility", we _will not_ be learning the following:

- How to graphically design things
- How to navigate corporate systems to solve accessibility problems
- General programming guidance

> While there is absolutely value to each of these, removing them from our prevue enables us to stay focused on the implementation details of common in-app accessibility patterns. There's one last thing:

Reviewer: Should `prevue` be preview? purview?
